>>: Good morning, everyone.
Thank you for being here.
Before we start this meeting,
I just want to make sure if you
weren't here earlier in our
budget workshop meeting, chair
Sullivan is here, but he had to
step out real quick to attend a
work matter.
So he asked me to take his
place for a while.
So if you see him step back in
and me getting -- you know,
switching seats, you know why.
Thank you.
Thank you for your patience.
Good morning again, this is a
regular meeting of the Lone Star
College system Board of Trustees.
It's now come the order at
10:30 a.m.
If you could please stand with
me for the pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag
of the United States of America.
And to the republic for which
it stands, one nation, under
God, indivisible, with liberty
and justice for all.
I'm going to do a roll call real
quick just to make sure that we
do have quorum, which we do.
But I'll start with trustee
Wilson?
>>: Here.
>>: Trustee Broussard?
Trustee Stoma?
Trustee Meza?
Trustee Murillo?
Trustee Vogt?
Trustee Cain?
>>: Here.
>>: And myself.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Chancellor Castillo, has the
notice of this meeting been
posted?
>>: Yes, madam chair.
I certify that the posting has
been done so in accordance with
the law.
>>: Thank you, sir.
Next slide is public comment.
Do we have anyone signed up
for public comment?
>>: Yes, we have one public
speaker, Dr.
John Bergdof.
>>: Hello.
Good morning.
>>: Good morning.
Good morning,  everyone.
I am Dr.
John Bergdof, president of the
American federation of teachers
at Lone Star College.
In September of 2005, the most
powerful hurricane ever recorded
in the gulf of Mexico was taking
a direct path towards  Houston.
Hurricane Rita intensified to
category five with top winds of
177 miles per hour and she was
headed straight towards
Galveston bay.
Although she veered away from
Houston at the last hour, the
effects in the golden triangle
were devastating.
Between rain and astronomical
storm surge, Rita was bad.
As bad as Rita was for folks
east of us, the worst problem
for Houston was we overreacted.
Tens of thousands of people
took to the
freeways, brings I-45 to
a standstill all the way to
Dallas.
Why am I recalling this sad
story  today?
Since the start of the year,
higher education has been
experiencing a category five
hurricane in the form of
government actions.
There are many specific
examples I could bring up, but
today I want to recall three.
The lawsuit from the Trump
Department of Justice ending
instate tuition for undocumented
students.
Senate bill 37 shuttering
faculty Senate and creating a
new bureaucracy in  Austin.
And Senate bill 2615
restricting remote work for
higher education employees.
All of these action and others
are very bad for Lone Star
College, for our students, and
for our employees.
my biggest fear is that the
effect can be made worse if our
people overreact.
The indistrict ruling, for
example, does not apply to
foreign students on F
1 visas or students with valid
work permits.
DACA students and foreign
students with visas as well as
several other categories of
students are still eligible for
indistrict tuition if they meet
indistrict requirements.
I absolutely understand the
threat that many of these
students feel but they don't
need to make decisions based on
incorrect information about
tuition, potentially making
their future prospects even
worse.
SB37 in early drafts included
restrictions on the content that
faculty teachment these
provisions were stripped out
before the bill passed.
I've been getting calls from
faculty asking if they should
quit teaching about unpopular
topics, like slavery or
segregation or from showing
pictures of renaissance art or
.  I assure them that they
do not have to do so and, in
fact, they should not back away
from the important information
they teach.
However I worry that others
will silently overcomply with
what they think the law as a
says and deprive students of
the education they need.
SB2615 puts limits on remote
work for higher education
employees but does not end it.
Lone Star's flexible work
program which allows for some
days working from home and
includes accountability
measures should largely pass
muster, at least for nonteaching
staff.
Some alterations may be
necessary but pulling back on
the program would be a needless
overreaction.
Rita may have been less deadly
for Houstonians if public
officials had given out clearer
guidance.
I believe working together,
you on the board, the
administration, the union and
other interested groups, can
send out the best possible
information so that Lone Star
follows the law but our people
don't needlessly hurt our
students and ourselves by
overreacting.
Thank you so much for your
kind attention.
>>: Thank you, sir.
Ms.
Barnet, do we have anyone else
signed up for public comment?
>>: We do not.
>>: No?
Okay.
Since we have no other
speakers, we'll move on to the
approval of the minutes.
So colleagues, if you had the
opportunity to review the
minutes, it's now time to
approve them.
So approve the minutes of the
June 5th, 2025 budget workshop
meeting and the June 5th 2025
regular meeting.
Are there any corrections to
the meeting, if you were able to
review them ahead of time?
If no corrections, do I hear a
motion the approve the minutes?
Do I hear a second?
>>: Second.>>: Okay.
There's a motion and a second.
Can I hear any ayes or yes
?>>: Yes.
>>: Okay.
And any nays?
All right.
The motion passes.
Thank you.
Next slide is special
reports and announcements.
Chancellor?
>>: Yes, thank you, madam chair.
Let's start with the events.
So I want to start by
highlighting Dr.
Vienne was recently
recognized, I think it was about
a week ago, on July 23rd by the
Houston business journal for the
best CFOs in the greater Houston
area.
And it was a great event.
And I know several board
members were there, so we look
forward to your comments on that.
We had three tables there,
actually.
It was really nice.
Your colleagues were there, a
lot of your team members were
there.
It was a really nice and it
was also a big deal because it
was the inaugural one.
So I wanted to publicly
recognize Dr.
Vienne  again.
When one of our employees
wins, we all win.
So we're very proud of you.
Would you like to say a few
words,  Dr.
Vienne?
Reenact your speech from that
day?
No?
Okay.
All right.
All right, ma'am.
Fall 2025 convocation is on
August 19th from 8:30 to 11:30
at the Woodlands water way
Marriott.
And we're going to do things a
little bit differently this year.
If you've been there this year
and you're, like, been there,
done that, it's a new show.
We'll see what the ratings say.
But we're going to at least
try something new.
It is optional.
I want to be very clear about
that.
I don't want anyone
convocating against their will.
The start of the term is on
August 25th and so we're going
to start the fall term, and then
now I want to move to sort of
really the main point that I
wanted to make today.
And I'm going to start first,
we're going to talk about this
later with regards to the action
item number 28, but we have a
representative from -- that
represents Apple in the audience
and I want to recognize him.
Mr.
Collins is back there.
Yes.
And we're forming a
partnership with (inaudible) and
indirectly with a Apple to as
you guys have probably read as
recently as yesterday, there is
an announcement that we're going
to have several millions of
dollars of investment coming
right here to our fall brook
area in North Harris county.
And one of the things that
I've asked our hopefully new
partners and fox con and Apple,
NVIDIA and Samsung and those
folks is all we ask in return is
that you hire our students.
That's really sort of the only
thing that we have to ask of you.
We want to be good neighbors.
We want to be good  partners.
But we would like for you the
offer one of those -- most of
those 2500 new jobs to our
students here at Lone Star.
And so part of what I told
you, Mr.
Collins, is that at this
institution, we believe in the
work product that we put out.
And I wouldn't ask Apple or
fox con or anyone else to hire
our students if I'm not willing
to do it myself.
And so I want to recognize we
have five students right now
that work in the Chancellor's
Office and I'm going to go one
by one with them and ask them to
stand and just talk a little bit
about them.
I promised them that they
would not have to come and give
speeches.
So let's start with Marie H.
Marie is originally from
Cameroon and a proud first
generation college student
studying abroad.
Planning to graduate by 2029.
She aims to build a career
protecting systems and
communities from digital threats.
She enjoys modeling, spending
time with loved ones, and time
coding.
So there you go, Apple.
(inaudible) moved from Angola to
the United States in 2024 and
began studies at Lone Star that
fall.
He's pursuing engineering -- I
get nervous too, believe it or
not -- he's pursuing an
engineering degree with plans to
transfer to A&M.
And you're expecting to
graduate in 2026.
You aspire to work in the
offshore oil industry and travel
the world.
You enjoy researching global
and environmental topics online
and playing video games.
What type of flicking no, I'm
just kidding.
I promised no one would have
the speak.
Thank you so much.
So Jenny is from Vietnam
and she moved to the United
States eight months ago actually
with a background in hospitality
management.
She's pursuing an associate of
business at Lone Star College
university park.
She plans to transfer to the
University of Houston and
graduate in 2028.
She has a focus on human
resources and organizational
development.
So thank you.
Brianna earned both a
high school diploma and an
associate through (inaudible)
high and Lone Star College.
She has a molecular biology
concentration, I can barely
pronounce that, so
congratulations.
You're graduating in December
of 2025.
She aims to become a child
life specialist to support
children's children and families
in hospital settings.
She is actively involved in
volunteering in hospitals and
church leadership.
Thank you.
Richard, last but not least is
from Canada with a background as
a full stack software engineer
.  He aspires to start a
software business and sees the
degree as a stepping stone
toward entrepreneurial roles.
He enjoys coding and video
games in free time.
Thank you, Richard.
And so the my friends at Apple,
I practice what I preach, and I
expect my partners to do the
same.
Next but not least, I want to
introduce new president of the
LSC online.
Come on down, Dr.
Morales.
So let me tell you a little
bit about Dr.
Morales because he tends to be
very humble and I like to brag.
He's the founding president of
TCC connect, which is in Tarrant
county, which serves over 30,000
students.
He has over 30 years of
teaching.
He is the author of more than
50 publications, 125
presentations, and active peer
review across multiple
continents, directed a
college-wide shift to virtual
learning during COVID-19.
He serves on the NCRA
, and others recognized
as a fry fellow.
Here you have him, Dr.
Morales, our president of LSC
online.
>>: Thank you.
Good morning, chancellor
Castillo, vice chair Saldivar,
and members of the board.
Thank you for that warm
introduction.
I am truly excited
to join LSC and I look forward
to working with all of you to
continue building a strong and
innovative and supportive
environment for both our
students, as well as faculty and
of course together we will
embrace the opportunities ahead
and ensure that our college
remains a leader in online
education.
I am excited to learn from
you, collaborate with you, and
contribute to our shared mission
of student success.
So thank you again for the
opportunity.
>>: Welcome!
Colleagues, any comments?
Thank you, sir.
Welcome.
>>: Thank you.
>>: Thank you, Dr.
Morales.
Next is our new vice
chancellor of marketing and
communications, that's Dr.
Prince.
Come on down, Dr.
Dr.
Prince has more than 30 years
of experience in strategic
planning, media relations,
marketing, journalism, and
crisis communications.
She began her career in public
relations in the Marine Corps as
a writer and photographer and
editor.
She's been at Lone Star since
2018 serving in various roles.
She holds a doctor of higher
education administration from
Texas tech university and she's
been the interim for the last
eight months.
So we just knocked off the
interim.
Dr.
Prince is this.
>>: Thank you.
Good morning, madam vice chair
, chancellor Castillo, and the
rest of the faculty and staff
who are here.
It's truly an honor and
privilege to be intrusted with
this role.
It's very exciting to work at
a place like Lone Star College
system where everyone from the
board to the chancellor to the
leadership team works together
collaboratively to really be
able to transform the lives of
our students, their families,
and our communities.
And it was very easy for me to
say yes to being in a role where
I get to work with all of this
team.
It's so rewarding to be a part
of this, and I'm excited for the
work ahead and grateful for the
opportunity.
Thank you very much.
>>: All right.
And the last  introduction, I
promise, is our new associate
vice chancellor of
mental health and wellness.  Dr.
Stokes, come on down.
She's the associate vice
chancellor in that position.
She has 27 years of clinical
experience and nearly 20 years
in college mentality leadership.
She's known for her innovative
approach to mental health,
aligning with Lone Star
College's mission.
She led key wellness
initiatives with the Judd
foundation.
Her background includes work
in psychiatric settings.
She is a proud mother of three
daughters.
And so I really want to
highlight this part of it.  Dr.
Stokes is a clinician.
Right?
And so she's a mental health
doctor.
And she has been hired to lead
what we hope to be our new
internal mental health division
for our students and our
employees.
>>: Thank you to the vice
chair, chancellor, and to the
board members.
I am thrilled to be here.
I have had such a warm welcome
from so many of you.
I've been able to meet with
people from all levels of
leadership, as well as our
frontline staff.
I was sharing with Dr.
Vienne that as soon as I think
I know how big Lone Star S it
gets bigger.
And then it gets bigger.
And so I'm still trying to
wrap my head around the
magnitude of the  system.
But people have been very
supportive, enthusiastic.
I've spoken with folks who
have shown commitment in
addition to the willingness to
be uncomfortable if it means
that we can create mental health
programming for our students.
And give good outcomes to them.
And so I appreciate everyone's
enthusiasm as I continue to kind
of learn the system and figure
out on how we can move forward.
I can say that this system has
good bones.
When I left my former
institution, someone said to me
on the last day at my sendoff,
aren't you glad you're getting
away from the chaos.
And I said well I'm not
leaving higher education, so I'm
not really getting away from the
chaos.
I'm kind of getting new chaos.
But the difference here at
Lone Star is that there's heart
and there's energy behind the
work.
I've seen a real dedication
from folks to want to really
improve these outcomes for our
students, and I'm excited to be
a part of building together.
Thank you.
>>: That concludes my report,
madam chair.
Thank you.
>>: Thank you.
Our next item
is board members, trustees, do
you have any special reports or
announcements?
No?
Trustee Cain?
>>: A couple of items.
I had the pleasure of
attending the Houston business
journal's recognition of
outgroup CFOs in this area and
Dr.
Vienne, congratulations once
again for being honored.
That was a very nice day.
I also had a chance to, this
week, attend the dedication of a
fire fighter training facility
at Kingwood college, Dr.
Gons, honoring a former fire
fighter, Gary
Lee S.
, who was tragically killed
putting out a
fire.
A number of those fire
fighters are on hand.
It was a wonderful occasion.
>>: Thank you.
Trustee Broussard?
>>: Yes, I had the pleasure of
attending Dr.
Gonzalez and chair Sullivan's
community event at Kingwood,
Lone Star College Kingwood.
It was the state of the union
event with a lovely luncheon and
it was just spectacular.
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Chair Sullivan and I discussed
how nice, and so did trustee
Wilson, who was also there, how
nice it would be for every
institution to have such an
event as far as the state of the
union.
Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed
it.
Thank you so much.
>>: Trustee Wilson?
>>: I've been moving and
shaking all  over.
So first with the positive
award ceremony to recognize our
own Dr.
Vienne, I thought that was
awesome, and to see how many
people that we had actually come
out and celebrate her.
I believe like support is
actually action, and I do
believe you felt the action and
love and support from the
institution.
And not only that, Lone Star
was, like, recognized, you know
what I'm saying?
It was good to see.
We had 30 people there, as the
chancellor mentioned and it was
really  nice.
So I really appreciate that
and the invite.
I also attended the state of
Kingwood with Dr.
Gonzalez and chair Sullivan and
it was really, really good to
see all the information and the
growth that they're doing out
there in Kingwood.
And I'm excited for the growth
is that you know because we need
it.
And I appreciate everybody
putting their time in and the
faculty and staff to make it
happen because I know it's a lot
that goes behind it but you-all
did an awesome job and I
appreciate the information.
I also attend, along with
former trustee pierce, we
attended the LSC Tomball special
Olympics golf they had at top
golfment everybody -- it was
full.
They had the whole bottom part
of top golf blocked off for the
tournament.
Everybody that attended
placed, first second or third.
So I thought it was really
amazing.
They really did a good job.
They really know what they're
doing.
And so I was just excited for
the -- you know, because that
just shows we don't just focus
on one type.
We focus on everybody.
So I really appreciated the
invite and I know he's not
here, but the coach of the team,
he's also the coach of the
basketball team for life skills
Tomball.
And he was just telling me and
former trustee Pierce that they
have the USA special Olympics
team and he went out of 40
teaches to see if he could be
the head coach.
And we had three students try
O.
they didn't make it but he made
it to be the coach.
That's a big thing  to do.
That's more recognition for
Lone Star.
So people would know who we
are and let them know we have
good people.
We have strong people that are
trying to make a difference in
our kids' lives.
I also attended the Kingwood
fire training pavilion
dedication for doctor Staley and
to see that his parents
entrusted us with an endowment
for fire fighters and they
entrusted us to award
scholarships to deserving
students.
They even had the first
student receive funding there,
and one who just received
funding from there.
Dr.
Gonzalez, you did a good job
with that.
And it was really nice to see
the plaque that was going to be
put inside the pavilion.
So when the cadets come to
take their rest, the plaque is
there for them to see it was
made possible by this family.
So it was great to see on this.
And I also attend -- this is
my last -- the back to school
with Dr.
Wright at positive fall brook
and it was an awesome event.
It was so many people.
There was a lot of people is
there and it was just good to be
able to help, along with
trustee Murillo, trustee Meza,
to see the people and the
excitement.
Snow cones, corn dogs, hot
dogs, all the things.
School supplies -- it felt
good to get back in the
community and help again.
>>: Thank you, trustee Wilson.
Any of my other colleagues?
Trustee Meza?
>>: Good morning.
I'm going to chronological
order.
So long as my full-time job
with Al dean, we did a trip to
DC.
We took 22 young people,
students, graduates from our
high schools to DC and they got
to do the whole tour and see all
the monuments and historical
events, learn about them, that
have shaped our country.
We got to tour the Supreme
Court also, which is a really
cool experience.
And we also had some students
represent and meet with
legislative staff.
So we got to meet with the
staff of senator Cornyn, the
district 18 staff which as we
know the position is vacant
currently.
And we actually had a special
student, Deliria Smith who I
don't see here, so I'm not sure
if she's gone off to the marines
already, but she attended with
us.
We're very proud of her.
So all that to say I'm hopeful
that maybe with the program we
have here with our college as
far as the engage the elect rat
program, I'm glad to work with
the facilitators of that program
to get some students out to DC.
I'm sure y'all are probably
way ahead of that for me.
But any way I can help out,
I'd like to do that.
I'm proud of our students.
A lot of our Al dean students
do end up coming to Lone Star
and I'm trying to make sure that
I help them and ensure that they
get same opportunity that I was
given from my counselors at
spring ISD to come the Lone Star.
Secondly I'm grateful to the
college and chancellor Castillo
to send me to the  (inaudible)
conference.
I represented the college in
Atlanta just a few weeks ago and
got to meet with a few people,
colleagues of ours in different
jurisdictions and positions.
It was cool for me, since I'm
relatively new to this thing.
And so I got to get a little
bit of coaching and mentoring
out there and do a little bit of
elbow rubbing.
But it's a really cool
experience and I got to meet a
few other trustees at other
colleges, not just in our area
but throughout country and learn
about some of the challenges
they're facing.
Attended a really good session
such as land  use, mental
health, other things that
concern our community currently.
So I just want to say thank
you again for allowing me to go
out there and represent the
college.
And then also lastly, a big
shout out to Dr.
Wright for his recent event at
fall brook.
I know it was hot and you had
your staff out there working
six, seven days a week.
Also thank you to Dr.
Lambert for coming to our back
to school event.
We had quite a few tables and
talked to a lot of Lone Star
alum, including myself.
So thank you to all of our
presidents for the work that you
are doing right now.
I know it's crunch time right
now to get all of our students
enrolled.
So we're very appreciative of
all the work you're doing.
Thank you for that, and we're
hopeful for an amazing semester
and year.
Thank you so much.
>>: Thank you, trustee Meza.
Trustee Murillo?
Okay.
I just want to take this
opportunity and thank Dr.
Wright for our back to school
event.
It was incredibly blessed and
awesome.
We served how many students,
Dr.
Wright?
Over 1100 students, y'all.
1100 students for our back to
school fair.
And we had obviously, you
know, their back packs and
school supplies.
But we also have snow cones,
follow up corn, live music.
It was a very wonderful event.
So I want to publicly thank Dr.
Wright, all your staff.
I know it's -- you know, doing
events is a lot of work.
So I really appreciate that.
And also fall brook church for
partnering with us and always
being open with Lone Star
College for us to be able to
host events there.
So thank you fall brook church
for doing that for us and Dr.
Wright, thank you so much.
That was a very, very  good --
much needed event, as well, as
you could see.
Thank you.
>>: Now we move to --
>>: Vice chair, I'm so sorry.
Am I being recognized?
I think we may have skipped
Dr.
Jones' presentation?
>>: Yes, thank you ma'am.
Yes, I went a little bit ahead
of myself.
So I want to go back to item
B, which is the presentation.
Apologies.
>>: I will give y'all a minute
to have laptops -- iPads
distributed.
>>: Well while they distribute
the iPads, I'll take a second
because I forgot to recognize
one group of people.
I've gotten three or four
emails from trustees in the last
two or three weeks commending
the office of the chancellor's
staff and the board liaison.
This is me doing me.
A lot of work goes into these
meetings for a lot of time the
staff in the Chancellor's Office.
It's a weekly labor of love to
sort of just set up our meetings.
And so just want to make sure
that we publicly recognize them.
And another pitch for our
students, Mr.
Collins, my chief of staff, my
executive assistant and our
office manager are all former
students of Lone Star College.
And so again, we're very proud
of them and really proud of
y'all.
Thank you so much for all the
work that you do, Mr.
Krall, Ms.
Barnett, Brooke, everybody that
-- Nathaniel -- everybody that
works on these board meetings.
The facilities folks, the OTS
folks.
I personally appreciate it and
I can tell you that the board
appreciates it because they've
gone out of their way too
commend all of y'all.
So I wanted to publicly thank
y'all and apparently it worked
out perfectly while we did
whatever is going on behind me
here.
So thank you, chairman
Sullivan, for that indulgence.
I'm done now
.
>>: Thank you.
Dr.
Jones, please  proceed.
>>: Thank you, sir.
Good morning, chancellor and
Board of Trustees.
Lone Star College has a legacy
of excellence and
innovation for the future.
Picture our first generation
students starting at LSC, unsure
of their future and unsure how
to get there.
But leaving with a degree, a
job in their career, and the
skills and confidence to thrive.
That's the LSC difference
we're amplifying today.
Hopefully.
Community colleges first open
to expand access to higher
education.
Now called community college 1.
0.
Decades later priorities
evolved to emphasize credential
completion or 2.0.
And now in recent years,
community college 3.
0 was coined by the Aspen
institute to recognize the
additional need for postcollege
success.
This includes ensuring that
our credentials prepare students
for high demand, high wage
careers and ensuring students
cross the finish line to
employment in those careers.
If this rings a bell for you
with credentials of value and
the work of G2 and G5, you are
spot on.
For LSC, employment
readiness, experiential learning
and confidence in our graduates
isn't new.
However, we continue to
deepen, expand, and innovate new
ways in which we support family
sustaining careers for our
students.
Many students arrive with
financial need as a barrier.
Through direct employment and
paid internships, we empower
them to support themselves and
their families, ensuring they
can stay and succeed.
There are three main ways LSC
puts students to work.
We employ them directly, as
you've heard the chancellor
mention this morning, as
students and as alumni.
We embed real world experience
in the curriculum through
co-ops, clinicals, and
internships.
And we offer a variety of
career support services.
Three of the newest we'll
highlight in a few minutes, like
the timber wolf leaders pictured
here, building on a foundation
of access and completion, let's
dive into how we're supporting
postcollege success through
direct employment opportunities.
Both campus and system offices
have found ways to bring
students into our teams.
Not only is their perspective
invaluable in shaping our
future, but when we're proud of
the graduates we produce, there
is no greater compliment than to
welcome them back as colleagues.
The financial aid department
has supported student employment
through work study initiatives,
which include  VA study and 50
state mentor students this  year.
$1.
8 million towards federal work
study positions systemwide
familiarizes students with
professional environments and
effectively prepares them for
successful careers
postgraduation.
Since 2017, the office of
legal affairs and student
success has proudly employed
more than 50 former LSC students.
These students have
represented every campus across
the system, demonstrating the
team's strong connection within
the LSC community.
chancellor Castillo has
carried this practice into the
office of the chancellor.
So now LSC graduates like
Nathaniel and Brooke are an
integral part of that office,
too.
OLES has the potential for
seeing the potential in students
like Pablo.
While they are with us,
students like Jocelyn from
Houston north can get part-time
employment providing critical
support to other students or
stay connected over the years,
like Stephen Murphy who started
as a student assistant in zero
five and became a full-time
professor last fall.
Sometimes student become
future employees because one
person makes a special
connection, as was the case for
Andrea at North Harris.
Through our online college,
students like G
abriela learn not only hard
skills but also interpersonal
skills.
Co-ops, clinicals, and
internships.
These industry partnerships
are mutually beneficial,
ensuring our courses and
programs are a responsive to
industry demands.
In process technology and
instrumentation, robust
partnerships create remarkable
opportunities.
when our students
impress their employers, like
James Don, sometimes we get the
double win, as he is now
employed and also adjunct
faculty.
Internships can even place
students into the business
operations of the college, like
OTS and college relations teams,
who hire student interns to
apply their learning in real
world operations in the
supportive culture of LSC.
Additional career support from
campus and system teams include
job fairs, career exploration
activities, career star for
online connections with
employers, and workshops on
interview and resume writing.
As we embrace the chancellor's
challenge to ensure students are
better positioned to thrive, new
promising practices have
launching.
As one LSC, these practices
are shared, expanded, and
evolving to support the LSC
community.
Three such programs will be
featured, but more are always on
the way, benefiting students
like Madison, whose role in
student services prepares her as
a future engineer.
After launching falcon force in
23, LSC CyFair created the
falcon internship program in
February 24 to place students in
paid internships aligned with
their career aspirations but
separate from their classes.
Successful launch required
creating new industry
connections, now exceeding 150
businesses and developing
industry specific training to
help students compete.
Logical 170 students have
received at least one customized
coaching session.
Under the strategic priority
to build the campus for career
through completion, the
opportunity had you been will
launch micro-internships, a
national association of colleges
and employers or NACE,
competencies aligned pilot for
new students, industry field
trips, and more.
Students like
Daniela are equipped to succeed
as a commercial intern for
congressman Wesley hunt.
LSC university park developed
a student communication pathway
that evolved from their pain
squad of five student content
creators.
As of June, a formal paid
internship program.
The new social media marketing
internship at UP is an
intentional career aligned
student role developed within UP
relations.
Interns contribute to campaign
strategy, experience, event
planning, and internal marketing
while developing real world
skills in communications, PR,
and digital content.
These experiences not only
prepare students like Andrea for
postcollege careers but
strengthen their ties to the
college.
In its third year, timber wolf
leaders provided paid
opportunities for student
leaders and contributing
directly to campus initiatives.
Notably, two program
participants have successfully
transferred to roles within
college departments.
Impacting over 13 departments
across campus, more than f12
timber wolf leaders have now
been integrated into every major
division.
A hundred percent of these
students have not only been
retained into the program but
have a hundred percent
graduation and transfer rates,
as well.
Peyton shared, this experience
has helped me not only find my
voice but use it with confidence
and purpose.
These weren't just initiatives.
They're transformative proof
that LSC students are better off
because of us.
In a competitive job market,
programs like these bridge the
gap between education and
employment.
As the energy around these
teams is electric, idea sharing
and intercampus collaborations
continue with grassroots leading
the way.
I've compiled the more
detailed students stories into a
booklet for each of you, which
Fatima will share.
>>: Thank you very much, Dr.
Jones.
Before you leave the podium,
we'll ask for questions.
I'll start to my right.
Any questions, comments?
No?
Great job presenting the
presentation to us
.  Trustee Murillo?
>>: I want to commend you.
You presented it extremely
well, and just go get it!
Thank you.
>>: Thank you.
>>: Thank you, trustee Murillo.
Thank you, Dr.
Jones.
Next we'll move into committee
reports from board members.
First let's see, trustees, do
we have any special reports or
announcements?
>>: I do.
>>: Start on my left?
Okay.
Trustee  Stoma?
>>: The committee reports,
right?
>>: These are special reports
or announcements.
Trustee Broussard?
Trustee Wilson?
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.  Pardon me.
Now committee reports.
Trustee Stoma?
>>: Yes, I want to thank
Ms.
Bridgett Johnson for furnishing
her monthly report to the board,
and this is for board eyes only.
I know she's not here today
and I wish her well and a speedy
recovery.
She's doing an excellent job,
as well as her team.
These reports are important
because it allows the board to
keep track of what's going on
and to be able to ask questions,
either to the chancellor or
through the board liaison.
I've also spoken with the
chancellor several times, and
having Ms.
Johnson present five or ten
minutes at each board meeting.
There are three advantages to
doing this.
One, it gives the board again
an opportunity to ask questions.
If there's any proprietary
information or questions asked,
those can be deferred to private
sessions.
But it gives visibility  also,
public transparency, to what
we're doing.
We're going to spend tens of
millions of dollars on the
transformers of these
information systems, tens of
millions of dollars of public
money and they have a right to
know where that money is going.
So it gives some public
transparency to what we're doing
here.
Thirdly, it really helps Ms.
Johnson and her team to know
that not only does the
chancellor have their support,
but the board has their support.
In my 30 plus years of
managing programs and projects,
I always have a requirement to
report to the senior level
management, CXO, BPs
, et cetera, board members.
And that's important.
It's important to know that
they're behind you because any
project or program that does not
have senior management
involvement fails.
That's a matter of  research.
You can look that one up.
So I believe, my opinion, my
professional opinion and Ms.
Bridgett Johnson and I'm going
to call out
Ms.
Chris Williams.
She's the CIO.
She's the person who gets
things done and she's doing an
excellent job, as well.
And the two of them are the
right people to lead this
endeavor.
So I encourage them to have
time before the board.
I encourage them and support
them fully.
They're the right people for
the job.
And we need to support them
and give them, you know,
whatever support we can in any
way to help them move this
forward because it's not easy.
And they've really not done
anything this -- how should I
say -- scope, scoping before.
And they are very accomplished
folks.
But still, every project,
every program, every
transformation is new and
they're going to have issues and
they're going to need to entrust
those issues before the board
and we need a good rapport with
them.
So again, I want to thank them
for their work and encourage
them to carry on.
That's all I have.
>>: Thank you, trustee Stoma.
As a practice I started a
couple months ago, we're going
to call on each committee.
Policy  review, chair Saldivar?
Okay.
Thank you.
chancellor goals and
evaluation, chair Murillo?
>>: Not this month.
I will report next month.
>>: Yes, sir.
Thank you very much.
Grievance committee,
chairwoman Wilson?
Okay.
Thank you.
Committee on committees, chair
Cain?
Okay.
Thank you.
Community engagement, chairman
Meza?
>>: No updates at this time.
>>: Finance which is under me
is trying to schedule a meeting
right now.
We'll now move to committee
charges.
It's something that we started
working with the administration
on creating a charge for each
committee, both ad hoc and
standings.  Mr.
Krall has the latest
work product that has been
reviewed by legal, by the
administration, and is now being
passed out to each trustee.
So each trustee will have a
charge of all the committee
charges being released today.
There are a couple still in
progress.
Thank you.
So why you might remember that
we did a technology committee
previously.
So that one is done.
Included in the packet today
is community engagement
committee charge.
Grievance committee, that's
chair Wilson.
Policy review committee,
committee chair Saldivar.
And committees on -- excuse
me, committee on committees
committee charge.
That sounds funny.
Trustee I know Cain.
So when you have time, review
these.
Reach out for assistance.
And also be mindful that every
committee has a staff resource
assigned to it.
And if you don't remember who
that is, Mr.
Krall or Ms.
Barnett will provide that
information to you.
But I'm excited about the
committee charges because I
think they're going to give us a
sense of direction and
priorities that need to be
addressed as opposed to trying
to come up with something to
work on.
So I appreciate everyone's
indulgence on that.
Any questions?
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
Consideration of the consent
agenda.
We'll now move forward with
consideration of our consent
agenda.
Are there any items that need
to be pulled for separate
consideration?
I'll start on my left.
Trustee Murillo?
Trustee Cain?
>>: Item 22.
>>: Item 22 will be pulled.
Trustee Cain.
Trustee Meza?
>>: No, sir.
>>: Trustee Saldivar?
Trustee Wilson?
And chancellor, I'm going to
pull item 28 so the
administration can address it.
All right.
The following items have been
pulled from the consent agenda
for separate consideration, item
22 and item 28.
So may I have a motion for
items one through 21 and
23 through 27?
Trustee Wilson motion.
May I have a second?
Trustee Saldivar second.
Any discussion?
If not, I'll do a roll call
vote on the items called.
Trustee Saldivar?
Thank you.
Trustee Wilson?
Trustee Broussard?
Thank you.
Trustee Stoma?
Trustee Meza?
Trustee  Cain?
And I vote yes as well.
The item  passes.
We'll now pull item number
22.
Could I have a motion for item
22?
Trustee Wilson.
Thank you.
Do I have a second?
>>: Thank you.
And trustee Cain, item 22 is
yours, sir.
>>: Thank you.
In going through the agenda,
item 22 really jumped out at me.
It's the
Puente project and it's about
expanding the project, which I
think is just a great idea.
This is a project that is in
collaboration with UC Berkeley.
Its focus is on providing
enhanced services to
educationally unrepresented
students, many of whom are also
economically disadvantaged
students.
It seeks to level the playing
field for these students, which
is a great thing.
It benefits those students,
and in a larger sense it
benefits everyone.
And so I am just totally in
support of this program and
wanted to see if there was
additional information that we
could, through the Chancellor's
Office, gain from that item.
>>: Thank you.
Any comments?
>>: Dr.
Wright, will you come up here,
please?
>>: Good morning, trustees.
We are very excited and want
to thank you for the support of
the Puente program.
We are in the process now of
expanding university park is on
board now.
We have two campuses.
And it's worked very well.
So tell you what this is
about, it's a program that takes
an academic and a mentoring
model and the focus is on first
time college students with
specific focus on first
generation students.
We like it because as you know
one of our G2 goals is retention
of first year students.
And so this is a model that
helps our faculty and our staff
to know how to connect.
And so there's a couple of
ways.
There's three different ways
in which it supports our
students.
One, there's a general cohort
and the students come through
together, taking certain courses
like all your English, your
speech, your psychology, your
arts courses and they work
together.
There's another model in which
like, for instance, at Houston
north we have a mentoring model
of all first time college
students.
And so the faculty go through
and they're trained on
techniques to deal with first
generation college students.
That alone is about 750
students.
And then there are several
faculty members who just became
certified just for the purpose
of teaching their classes.
And to tell you the type of
impact that we've had, over the
past four years, we now have
about 44 faculty and staff
members that are certified and
have gone through the training.
And to tell you a little bit
about just the success of it,
the cohorts over the past three
years have all had over 90
percent course success rates,
meaning A, B, or Cs in courses.
And to put that in
perspective, that's about 12
percent higher this past year
than our overall system average.
And that's with once again
first time in college, first
generation, underrepresented
students.
And it's all about focusing up
on bringing the backgrounds of
the students into the classroom
where they matter, with
everything that they're bringing
to it.
The content helps the faculty
relates to it.
The advisers relate to them.
So it's been a  highly, highly
successfully program and I just
want to end with this point.
It's not an administrator
driven program.
It's a faculty driven program.
I could tell you some of the
first trainings the faculty got
together, asked for some
funding, and they went through
this training themselves.
We jumped on the back end and
said if you support it, we
support it too.
So I want to commend the
faculty for keeping it alive all
this time and look forward to it
continuing to help our G2 goals
.
>>: Good, trustee Cain?
Good.
Thank you, Dr.
Wright.
Any other questions or
comments on 22?
I'll do a roll call vote.
Trustee Saldivar?
Thank you.
Trustee Wilson?
Trustee Broussard?
Trustee Stoma?
Trustee Meza?
Trustee Murillo?
Trustee Cain?
And I vote yes.
The item passes.
Next is item number 28.
May I have a motion for item
28?
Trustee Wilson.
Thank you.
May I have a second?
Trustee Saldivar for the
seconds.
Thank you.
The administration wanted to
comment on this item.
>>: Yes, thank you, chair.
Like I said earlier, this is
an FTC application on behalf of
fox con, which is a major
manufacturer.
Actually I think it's pretty
much the manufacturer of
iPhones, iPads, and a whole
set of different products for
different companies.
But primarily the one we've
been working with is Apple.
So most of you have read and
heard about this massive
investment that Apple, along
with the Trump administration,
are making into chip
manufacturing, server
manufacturing, and really sort
of trying to bring manufacturing
back on a big scale to the
United States, particularly
Texas.
And it just so happens that
the site location for these new
proposed factories happen to be
in our service area over in our
fall brook neighborhood is where
these are going to be built.
And they are moving at
lightning speed.
We've met now twice with both
the leaders of what I'll call
system office fox con and then
we also met with the specific
center of fox con leaders here
recently.
And they, if I understood them
correctly, they have to be up
and running in production
essentially by spring.
By late spring they have to
get going.
So they came to me and said
can we push up this FTC
application?
It was originally supposed to
be in September.
We pushed it to August because
we want to help get them going
as quickly as possible.
What it means for us, they're
projecting at the least 2500
jobs and these are very well
paying jobs because one of the
things I've learned in meeting
with them is a lot of our jobs
in manufacturing went abroad
when labor was cheaper abroad.
But one of the dynamics that's
happening now is that cheap
labor abroad is being replaced
by robots.
And so now they need somebody
to essentially engineer the
program, to program the robots.
And that's where the local
aspect of it comes.
And I committed to come to the
board with my full
endorsement.
Mr.
Collins is back there on behalf
of Apple and they've shown a lot
of energy that I have not seen
in quite some time from an
employer that's willing to
partner with us, provide better
jobs, family sustaining wages to
our students.
So again, I urge you without
reservation to please adopt
action item number 28 because I
think it's the beginning of
something that's going to be
really special and unique at
Lone Star College for our
students.
>>: Thank you, chancellor.
And to those in the audience
with fox con or the
contractors, please know how
much we appreciate this.
Chancellor, if you covered
this earlier, I apologize.
But I led a course that
payment in lieu of taxes and
there's also no  net loss to the
system.
>>: Correct.
Essentially, it's an  offset.
They still pay what we would
get, so we're not letting them
off the hook for the money but
the way the money is paid
affects considerations for them
that really don't affect us.
And so that's the reason that
for us it's essentially a
neutral thing and especially
when they've committed to be
partners in hiring our students.
It's a win.
>>: Extraordinary.
Any comments?
Trustee Meza?
>>: I wanted to ask because I
know we're entering an
agreement, with the pilot
agreement and then they also
have the FTZ, the foreign trade
zone application, how long does
this last for?
Is this something we have to
renew at certain periods of time?
>>: It is a pilot, which means
we can jump off at some point
--
>>: (inaudible).
>>: I'm sorry.
Let me restart.
The pilot doesn't mean at a
but yes, there is a point where
essentially we can pull it back
is my understanding.
Yes.
>>: The designation would only
be for a certain period of time
and then they could reapply for
it but it's a limited amount of
time.
>>: Thank you.
Sorry to speak over you,
chancellor.
>>: That's okay.
It is both a capitol P pilot
and a lower case p pilot
.>>: Any other comments is no.
We'll do a roll call vote.
Trustee Saldivar?
Trustee Wilson?
Trustee Stoma?
Trustee Meza?
Trustee Vogt absent.
Trustee Cain?
sullivan votes yes, the item
passes.
We now move to financial report.
Dr.
Vienne will come up for round
two today.
>>: Yes, sir.
You get to hear from me again.
Apologies.
So these are the financial
statements.
Just as a reminder to the
board, for month ending June
30th.
So when you're looking at
actual revenues, you can see
that state appropriations
specifically are tracking down
from where they were in FY24 and
that was specifically because
the state's payment was delayed
to us beyond the June payment
when it was expected.
We didn't actually receive
that until July.
So even though it's recognized
there through June 30th, we have
now actually received the final
payment but it was not
recognized in June.
So I do want to point out that
for you.
So in June, the check was in
the mail.
We did finally receive both
checks from the state to make us
whole for state appropriations.
When you're looking at
expenditures through month end
of the 30th again, we are
tracking pretty well where we
have been this previous time
last year.
We have 345 million in total
expenditures of a 513
million-dollar budget through
month end of June.
So again as you look at that,
we are still ahead in revenue.
We're at 97.
8 percent of the budget now with
receiving the state payment, we
actually have competed that.
And again we'll report more on
that next month so you can see
those actual figures.
79.
8 percent though in budgeted
revenue had been received
through June 30th.
And then we're tracking a
little bit down in expenditures,
which means we spent less this
year as compared to the same
point in a previous year.
So out of the
$3,513,000,000,000 budget, we've
only spent 83 percent of that.
So we continue to monitor that.
So when ere looking at your
financial statement, I do want
to highlight a couple of
variances, many of which I've
talked about in the budget
workshop.
When you're looking at the
variance, you can see $3.
4 million variance in tuition.
That is to the positive, which
means we've received more in --
we anticipate we will receive
more in tuition fees than what
we budgeted for to the tune of
about 3.4 million.
So again, we did recognize
that moving forward for this
year's budget.
State appropriations, there
was a delta.
That was a timing between the
file and the final run that they
did.
Taxes, we residue 8.
5 million more than anticipated.
And then again investments, 4.
4.
So again you heard me speak
about investments ask
recognizing that as actual
revenue.
You can see why we want to
recognize that.
It's consistently been
recognized the last two years as
received.
So we have a delta of about
$26 million more this year in
revenue than what was budgeted.
So all to the  betterment of
the system.
So always good news to report.
When you're looks at the
financial statements and the
expenditures, to date there's no
significant variances to report,
which just means everything is
lining out the way that we
anticipated.
Again, only spending about
70.
3 percent of the expenditure
budget to this point in month
ten of a 12 month cycle.
In looking at your board
binders, you do have additional
documents in your documents.
And then when you're looking
at cash reserves, just to remind
everyone, this stays static
because it is looking only by
definition at a singular point
in year.
So for FY25, we have
169 in reserves.
We do anticipate that growing
for next year, taking into
account the additional $26
million that was received I
beyond what was budgeted.
And this does not include
capital projects or the ERP.
So we do anticipate this
growing for next year.
Any questions from the chair
or the board?
>>: Trustees?
Trustee Meza?
>>: Dr.
Vienne, I have a quick question.
Going back to the increased
revenue from tuition, it's
closer the 3.
5, right?
The million?
Do we know --
>>: Yeah.
>>: Do we know where that came
from?
>>: Yes, absolutely great
question, sir.
When we have budgeted, our
focus has been on student
outcomes and student success.
We've taken away the focus on
growth.
So both last year and in this
year's budget, we're not
projecting growth.
So we budgeted flat that last
year.
We're budgeting flat again
So that was recognizing growth
that we received that we did not
budget for.
So we received additional 3.
4, almost $3.
5 million based on growth.
This year we recognized that
growth.
We're not budgeting for growth
this year, just recognizing that
if we stay flat, if we continue
to grow this year, we hope, we
would like to.
But again the focus is on
student graduation and success.
Then you would also see that
variance because it's
recognizing the growth that we
didn't put in the budget.
Is that helpful?
>>: Definitely.
And I know the focus is on
retention and of course keeping
the students coming back and
getting them to graduate but we
can't stop students from
enrolling.
And they want to enroll.
So that's great.
>>: Just to offer an
operational sort of perspective
for that, it goes back to the
same dynamic that I talked about
during the budget meeting.
If you budget growth, then it
gets allocated and you forecast
it.
And so what happened for the
way it used to work is we would
budget growth and then when the
growth did not happen, then you
had to pull back.
And so people felt like budget
was being cut.
And it wasn't that.
It's the growth estimates
weren't what we had budget hard
baked essentially into the
budget.
And so just like HB8 money
now with enrollments, if we say
that we're not focused on
enrollments but we budget on it,
then that doesn't align and
culturally there's a mismatch
between our budget and our
strategy.
If we get the money, we will
recognize it and then we will
spend it.
But we don't need to build a
budget in my opinion that says
we're going to grow x, y, and z.
So it has nothing to do with
turning people away at the door
or students, it has to do with
are we counting on that money
and are we counting it in a way
that if it doesn't come true,
we're going to have to redo
things just like HB8.
So it's a student tuition
strategy where fundamentally
just back to basics, don't spend
money you don't have until you
have it.
And that's fundamentally what
we're doing across all income
streams.
>>: Thank you, trustee Meza.
thank you very much, Dr.
Vienne.
Appreciate it.
>>: Thank you.
>>: And before we go in closed
session, I apologize.
I missed part of the meeting.
So I want to thank vice chair
Saldivar for running both the
budget workshop and the meeting.
Thank you.
Second, I missed makes some
comments about some activities,
so if you could just bear with
me a momentful it's been a very
active month.
I appreciate what everyone
here at the board wants to
accomplishings the good they
want to do and the engagement
results from everyone working
together.
With this said, I want to
thank Dr.
Melissa Gonzalez and her team
at Kingwood.
Event highlighted the many
programs and activities offered
and included not just the main
campus but the centers, as well.
I could feel the energy and
interest in the room.
Afterwards, many guests stayed
to mingle, ask questions, and
tour.
It was great to have y'all
there.
Next item is to recognize Lone
Star College foundation.
Earlier this week, Lone Star
College Kingwood, they held a
ceremony dedicating a fire
pavilion to someone who had lost
their life fighting a
fire.
It honored Gary Staley
who lost his life fighting a
fire department he was a
foundation -- this was a
foundation event and would not
have been possible without the
generosity of the Staley family.
To the point take a minute to
acknowledge the work that Ms.
Gotye does.
She is a consummate
professional, always promoting
the foundation and the work that
it does.
In closing, I want to thank
trustees Wilson and Cain for
attending event, as well.
We'll now move into closed
session under one or more of the
following provisions.
Section 551.
071, section 551.072.
074, and section 551.076.
>>: I reconvene this board
meeting at 1:43 p.m.
Are there any suggested future
agenda items.
Looking to my right?
Any future items?
To my left?
Yes?
>>: Whenever we went to DC, a
few of us, I had encountered
some community colleges  that
-- and I would look into how to
put this in policy or what their
process is, but they have
student trustees.
At least one student trustee.
So going back to the goals of
the college as far as community
engagement, listening to our
students, giving them a seat at
the table, I would like to see
something next month on the
agenda if necessary.
If  not -- but I would either
way like to see us starting a
student trustee program.
And if it has to be put on the
agenda for board approval, I
would like to see ha.
And if not and we can still do
it, then however we can get it
done.
That's my approval.>>: Okay.
Let's give the administration
whatever time they need, if they
need a month or two.
Because we're getting ready to
start the fall semester and
budget.
But good idea.
Anything?
Okay with no further business
to discuss, this board meeting